So now we're finished with
my like standard boilerplate
TypeScript Project Setup.
And I want to spend a moment
looking at the notes section five.
I want to spend a moment
talking about what we've just
done in a little bit more detail.
So, also note that I the latest code
has been pushed to this little repo.
And so, you can take a look at that
as we discuss a few things and
I want you to understand
what we're looking at here.
My hope is that this is
a simple enough setup
that you can really have
a grasp around what's going on.
So we talked already about our tsconfig,
and what exactly strict means.
In the notes, I have a link here.
To the source of truth in the TypeScript
project itself, where you can look and
see which of the various compiler
options are included with strict mode.
So you can see for yourself there,
don't take my word for it.
That's where that information is located
and as the project evolves unless they
move that somewhere else, I will
update the link if we if we have to.
But that's where you can see
exactly what strict means because it's
not just things that begin with strict.
No implicit any.
So that's one of the things that's
included with strict, this effectively
means In the absence of the ability
to infer the type of something,
we default to
asking the code author to
tell us something, right.
So if we have like a function
that takes an argument,
subtract is a great example here.
I don't say what b is.
It implicitly has an any type.
There's no way to know what b is.
No way.
I mean, if in some languages you
could go down to line 10 and
see this is minus operator, and
so we could reverse flow up
into the function signature and
understand that this is the spin number.
TypeScript doesn't work that way.
Typed information only flows in
one direction and if for example,
I did this could be string concatenation,
right?
Not every operator it's like
a smoking gun in terms of
a clue to what type something is.
So if implicit anywhere allowed,
this would be fun, but
here if I really wanted any,
I have to be explicit about it.
And then now we're back to a warning,
not an error.
So that's no implicit and
it's defaulting to
the author must tell us something as
opposed to just defaulting to loose mode.
Loose mode being the way let
works in regular JavaScript.
No implicit this, so
that's part of strict mode.
So let's look at this.
So let's say we have a button
Actually I can just do this.
So, we'll talk about what
declare beans later snow for
now it gets rid of that error message.
So if I did lm add event listener,
click and
then I follow up with a function
So, can somebody in the class
tell me if I if I do this,
what might I see when
this button is clicked?
What is this on line 16?
What am I gonna see there?
Anyone have an idea?
I'll give you a clue.
>> I've-
>> I've seen the elements.
>> It is the element.
Yeah, I've chosen this example for
a reason, right?
It's a very specific example,
so it's relevant here.
Yeah, it's the element.
So I could do like this class name.
Hey, there it is.
And in fact, TypeScript knows about it.
It knows that this is
an HTML button element.
So, when defining this callback here,
it has to say, you must pass me
a function whose this is the right thing.
Because if I were in here, say it was
a method I pulled off of something,
something that's already bound,
this will no longer be that element.
So that is what strict or
no implicit this is all about.
It means that if you rely on
this being something special for
a free standing function,
you must state so.
You can't just get away with using this,
like anything goes.
So good to have that enabled.
Always strict we talked about that,
that's JavaScript like use strict.
Bind, call apply.
That's just literally
It's this function that bind signature.
So they're historically because
like TypeScript itself did not have
features to support proper typings here.
There was sort of a much looser mode
that this was allowed to operate on and
like so, enabling strict bind called ply,
sets the types of those three
methods on the function prototype to
exactly what you would hope they would be,
where the arguments passed to
the function are validated.
Right.
So here if I were to say, subtract bind,
so we'll say, undefined.
And now, you can see that I'm being asked
for a number, our zero has to be a number.
Or I could pass in two numbers.
Well, now I'm seeing the generic
implementations here, but
I could do three and
four and it would be fine.
But if I did this Interesting,
it's still letting me do it.
Because I have an error here.
It's letting me do it
because I've been bad.
Yeah, so
this is exactly what you'd want, right?
You want that validation, you want
the signature of subtract to be taken into
account with bind,
because this would be nonsense
to pass the string four like you're
just asking for trouble there.
So that's fine call plays
strict null checks.
So this option is all about making sure
that no values are their own type.
With strict null checks, disabled, you
know isn't allowed value in any type,
numbers can be a number or null.
Strings can be a string or null.
And this is a big problem because we often
rely on type narrowing like we had declare
const as string or null.
So if this were our string
We want to be able to narrow
things down this way,
and of course you have an empty
string to worry about.
But if Knowles can be found anywhere,
you're really gonna find
yourself in trouble.
Like, what's gonna happen here?
So strict null checks would would like
it would allow something like this.
This could be null, so
you're asking for runtime errors here.
If anything has the possibility of null,
if anything has the possibility
of being null, you're exposing yourself
to a whole class of problems where
you're just gonna see like, cannot call
function blah, blah, blah, unknown.
You don't that, you want like that
is easily solvable at compile time,
so you want that to happen.
Strict function types.
I'll let you look mostly at
the example in the docs because it's
a little bit nuanced, but
just understand at a high level,
that when if you're holding,
let's say you have a callback,
you store that in a variable like
a function stored on a variable.
You wanna make sure that the types of
the arguments that can be passed to
the function are validated as part of
comparing the type of function one
to function two.
And then strict property initialization,
we've already dealt with that today,
that's making sure that
if you have class fields,
they have to be initialized either with
field initializers or in the constructor.
That's, that.